if you think about any Paragon of Love
Martin Luther King Mother Teresa Gandhi
think about that like very loving person
that you know and you'll notice that
they all have boundaries my name is Joe
Hudson I'm a former venture capitalist
and a coach to some of the most notable
names in Silicon Valley in today's video
we're going to talk about how to draw
boundaries and how you can feel great
doing it so the first thing is how do
you draw a boundary that opens your
heart now this kind of doesn't make
sense for a lot of people so let me make
it really clear often times we get this
feeling that if we draw a boundary
they're going to think that we don't
love them but that's not the case at all
it allows people to know they're safe it
allows people to know what we want we
can't really trust somebody's yes if
they're always saying yes yes yes I'll
do that yes I'll do that yes I'll do
that you'll know that the resentment is
coming you'll know that the other shoe
is going to fall because they always say
yes and when somebody can say no to you
and they can do it without a hard heart
man you can really trust them so it's
really important that you do it with an
open heart that you really allow each
boundary you consider the boundary
before you draw it and you say hey no
matter how they react to it does it open
my heart that's the first thing that you
need to know to draw boundary now the
second thing is that you do not want to
get into a power struggle so you're
never going to tell them what they're
going to do or what they have to do
you're always going to talk about what
you're going to do so let's say you have
somebody who always gets angry at you
and you don't want that in your life
anymore so you draw this boundary and
the boundary isn't you need to stop
yelling at me the boundary is hey when
you yell at me I am going to leave my
wife and I we were in our like 20s and
we had grown up in families where
yelling at each other was always the
thing and I remember like we were
yelling at each other we were repeating
that pattern we had this great therapist
she was like an older lady at the time I
think maybe she's like our age now but
anyways there was this great moment
where she goes oh that's verbal abuse
she goes you're yelling at each other as
verbal abuse and it hit both of us and
we're like no it isn't and she's like no
no no here like this is the definition
of verbal abuse and we're like oh crap
it's verbal abuse and at that moment we
realize oh that's not okay but we also
for whatever reason at the time couldn't
control the yelling we couldn't like
stop our yelling and so what we could do
is we could just gently walk away and
say hey I'm going to walk away if you're
yelling and so often times one of us
would say hey I'm going to walk away
I'll be back in 10 minutes and the other
one would get even more angry and I
realized like oh get angry as you want
I'm just I'm going to walk away either
way like it's all good I don't need to
stop your anger I just need to stop
listening to it for a while so that I
can be back in myself and then I can
come back with more love because my
heart is more open it's just that simple
now some important things here is that
when you leave you always tell somebody
when you're going to be back
because if you don't tell them that it
feels like abandonment so you never want
to have the person feel abandoned
because that's only going to entrench
the behavior because they get even more
scared and it's even more of a power
struggle so you just want to let them
know that you'll be back when the
conditions are right when you are
comfortable and safe and feel good about
coming back which really helps you
refine the thought process that it is
about what you're going to do not what
they're going to do you can't control
another person there's this great
indigenous saying
and it says I would rather move a
mountain than change a person because
moving a mountain is easier and that's
absolutely the case in boundaries if you
get into a place where you're trying to
change the other person it is an uphill
battle the whole way but you can control
your behaviors every single time so the
third thing about the boundary is how
you say it so often times somebody
drawing a boundary is really scared of
being attacked and so they're going to
say it either oh my gosh I'm scared
you're going to attack me which invites
an attack or you're going to say it like
yeah this is how the boundary is your
attack isn't going to hurt me it's going
to be very hard which also invites an
attack but if you have a good boundary
like what would make you care if they
attack you you're just like hey I'm not
going to be here for this and they're
like I'm attacking you and then you're
like yeah so I'm leaving now the thing
about a boundary is you only care about
the response when you aren't firm on
your own boundary boundary when you're
not okay with your own boundary when you
say no it's not okay for me to leave or
it's not okay for me to take care of
myself that's the only time you're
really scared of an attack so if you
can't overcome your fear of the attack
if you can't get over the idea that
they're going to run over your boundary
or they're going to attack you then the
real work is to be okay with the
boundary yourself to say yeah it's okay
for me to walk away if someone's yelling
and if you start really looking at that
the only times it's not okay for us to
draw a boundary is when we can't draw
the boundary to ourself so if we yell at
ourselves it's hard for us to see that
it's not okay for somebody else to yell
at us if we criticize ourselves all the
time then it's hard for us to draw a
boundary with somebody who's constantly
criticizing us so the real work is being
okay with the boundary because once you
are there attacks really aren't relevant
cuz you can always leave until they're
ready to settle down and treat you with
respect it's just that
simple so if you like the video please
subscribe and in the comments you can
write anything that you want us to make
a video on and of course watch the next
video
[Music]